---
title: How it all fits together
tags: Administration, 2022, Epistemology, Ontology, Play, Emergency Management  
---

As a researcher, much of my work is meant to fill a common products based on me and my perspectives on the focus of my research. This focus began in my childhood and was made manifest when I was in graduate school -- emergency management with a focus on tech and science integration. The breakdown of this work is relatively straight forward (for me) but may be slightly confusing, obtuse, convoluted, or otherwise nonsensical to you. 

The most basic description of this is best considered in a list of 5 steps: 

1. Our planet consistently produces events that will destroy the things we make yet we do not make things to cope with those events.
2. When these events occur, emergency management is responsible for re-establishing human-centered order. 
3. Because all things are not built around being broken, our most fragile technology, computation, cannot work within disaster. 
4. Yet, there is a need for computation within emergency management because consumers are well-steeped in it and expect it to work. 
5. In order to fix the above 4 items, research is needed to understand how diasters differ from one another, how to train for an emergency management integrated with technology and science, and what sort of software can accomplis these things. 

---

This is a broad research area yet narrowly focused on:
 1) understanding current practice and 
 2) discovering how to guide current practice in emergency management to a space more specifically aligned with consumer electronics and online behaviors. 

To enagage these concepts, the work we do here typically falls into 1 of 4 spaces: 

1. Human-Computer Interaction - Where we engage software design 
2. Crisis Informatics - where we engage with machine learning and information retrieval techniques in an effort to make sense of chaotic crisis communication and social media posts. 
3. Crowdsourcing and Location-Based Games - Where we engage with games like Niantic's Pokemon Go in an effort to understand how maps and mapping can help aid accuracy and understanding via map-based artifacts.
4. Game Studies - Where we work broadly in order to understand the relationship among and between history, computation, games, and tabletop games (sometimes called analog games).

This work allows us to perform a multi-pronged approach to understand, outline, and design objects, trainings, and studies that can help lives be more easily saved during a hazard-event or disaster.  
